AI content updates (#17994)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: public/content/ai-agents/frameworks/index.md

---
title: AI agent frameworks
description: A directory of agent frameworks with Ethereum integration, including GOAT, ElizaOS, Rig, Olas, GAME, and LangChain, with a decision guide for choosing between them
lang: en
template: ai-agents
emoji: ":robot:"
sidebarDepth: 2
image: /images/ai-agents/hero-image.png
alt: AI agent frameworks on Ethereum

> summaryPoint1: Choose an agent framework based on your language, protocol needs, and deployment target

Reviewer: Trim to ≤8 words; keep keywords; parallel structure.

```suggestion
summaryPoint1: Choose by language, protocol coverage, and deployment target
```

> summaryPoint1: Choose an agent framework based on your language, protocol needs, and deployment target

Reviewer: Trim to ≤8 words; keep keywords; parallel structure.

```suggestion
summaryPoint1: Choose by language, protocol coverage, and deployment target
```

> summaryPoint2: Compare popular agent frameworks for Ethereum integration, with a decision guide and code samples

Reviewer: Names specific frameworks. More concrete but commits the page to keeping the list current. Revert if you prefer the generic phrasing.

```suggestion
summaryPoint2: Compare GOAT, ElizaOS, Rig, Olas, and more
```

Author: Reverting to keep generic phrasing (reduces project 'kingmaking') and to reduce need for content updates

> summaryPoint2: Compare popular agent frameworks for Ethereum integration, with a decision guide and code samples

Reviewer: Names specific frameworks. More concrete but commits the page to keeping the list current. Revert if you prefer the generic phrasing.

```suggestion
summaryPoint2: Compare GOAT, ElizaOS, Rig, Olas, and more
```

> summaryPoint3: Integration guides with code samples for each framework

Reviewer: Trim to ≤8 words; keep keywords; parallel structure.

```suggestion
summaryPoint3: Code samples for each framework's Ethereum integration
```

> summaryPoint3: Integration guides with code samples for each framework

Reviewer: Trim to ≤8 words; keep keywords; parallel structure.

```suggestion
summaryPoint3: Code samples for each framework's Ethereum integration
```

### Event-driven pipeline {#event-driven-pipeline}

Use this pattern when your agent system needs to react to onchain signals, like new blocks, price movements, or governance proposals, rather than run on a fixed schedule. Agents are chained in a linear sequence, each responsible for a single stage, so the signing authority stays contained in a single Executor at the end of the pipeline.

```
TriggerAgent  →  watches events or prices
     ↓
QueueAgent    →  manages task queue
     ↓
ExecutorAgent →  executes within rate limits and session key policy
     ↓
AuditAgent    →  verifies and logs result
```

## GOAT with the Vercel AI SDK {#goat-vercel-ai}

GOAT is the recommended starting point for production EVM agent deployments. It provides 200+ pre-built protocol plugins and is directly compatible with the Vercel AI SDK.

**Best for:** Production EVM agents that need broad DeFi protocol coverage out of the box, or TypeScript and Python teams that want a single framework compatible with the Vercel AI SDK, LangChain, and LlamaIndex.

> <Alert variant="info" className="my-8">

Reviewer: `Package names` is a prescriptive instruction ("verify current package names against the GOAT repository before installing"). Skipping it leads to a failed install. Yellow keeps it from disappearing into prose.

```suggestion
<Alert variant="warning" className="my-8">
```

## Rig {#rig}

Rig is a Rust-based framework suited to agents where latency and type safety are the primary constraints, like high-frequency trading agents, data pipeline agents, and performance-sensitive deployments.

**Best for:** Agents with latency constraints below 100ms, or teams that require Rust's ownership model and type safety guarantees for production infrastructure. Note that riglr, Rig's Ethereum extension, is under active development. Verify crate versions before production use.

**Ethereum integration:** Rig connects to Ethereum through **riglr** (pronounced "riggler"), its blockchain-specific extension. riglr provides the [`riglr-evm-tools`](https://github.com/riglr/riglr) crate, which wraps the [`alloy`](https://github.com/alloy-rs/alloy) library for type-safe transaction construction and signing. 

Add both to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
rig-core = "0.5"
riglr = "0.1"
alloy = { version = "0.9", features = ["full"] }
tokio = { version = "1", features = ["full"] }
```

> <Alert variant="info" className="my-8">

Reviewer: Same pattern as the GOAT `Package names` note above — prescriptive instruction to verify crate versions before adding them. Yellow for consistency and visibility.

```suggestion
<Alert variant="warning" className="my-8">
```

Install the required packages:

```bash
npm install @virtuals-protocol/game
```

See the [GAME SDK documentation](https://docs.game.virtuals.io/) for the current API for registering workers (tool-calling agents) and configuring hook contracts within your deployment.

## Production guardrails {#production-guardrails}

<Alert variant="info" className="my-8">
<AlertContent>
<p className="mt-0"><strong>Required before going to Mainnet</strong></p>
<p className="mt-2">Regardless of which framework you choose, apply pre-execution simulation, session key spending limits, and application-layer rate limiting before any production deployment. These patterns are documented with full implementation code in <a href="/ai-agents/getting-started/#set-guardrails">Getting started: Set guardrails</a>.</p>
</AlertContent>

> </Alert>

Reviewer: Drop the `Alert` card here. The point is more natural as a regular paragraph, with the link on its own row.

```suggestion
Before going to Mainnet, every agent needs pre-execution simulation, session key spending limits, and application-layer rate limiting. These guardrails are framework-agnostic and apply to any production deployment.

[Getting started: Set guardrails](/ai-agents/getting-started/#set-guardrails)
```
